Dearest Lulu.
I hope this letter
finds you well
and that you're enjoying
your time with your parents.
I'm writing to let you know
that I am a genius!
"Whenst" I wrote you last.
I was in the throes
of a malaise.
That's when I got your letter!
Hello. Hootsifer.
Your letter concerned me.
You write
of feeling unimportant
while Luz. Eda and King
are off on adventures.
But. Hooty.
you are the Owl House.
You take care of everyone
inside you.
If that isn't a worthy
purpose. then what is?
How we doin'. hoot house?
Can ya keep it down?
Down. Down! Why does
this keep happening?
Sounds like our little demon
is becoming a "de‐man."
Ugh! Why does that
sound so wrong coming from you?
You!
I am done with this!
Those teens. eh?
Their moods change like the wind.
Whoa!
I'm freakin' out. Hooty.
Belos is planning something big. and
I'm weaker than a newborn witchling.
If I want to protect you guys. I have
to train as hard as I can to get strong.
No rest!
But every time
you overwork yourself.
you turn into the Owl Beast.
I said no rest!
Can you please
be quiet?
You're scaring the echo mouse.
And if he's not happy. I'll never
make my way into Amity's heart.
I mean. make a portal back home.
Uh. we have to go.
You were right. Lulu.
These three needed my help.
So I devised
the plan of plans.
Your words
inspired me to help everyone. Lulu.
So I'll start with King.
Maybe if I figure out what kind of
demon I am. I'll know what's going on.
But nothing in here
looks like me.
Our little bundle of joy was
growing up. and he had questions.
As the only other demon
in the house. I had answers!
But would he accept
help from me? Never.
Unless...
Did you owl pellet me?
Are you angry. sweaty?
Is there hair in places?
Does your voice crack
in a super embarrassing way?
I have the answers you seek...
You're going through
demon puberty!
Ugh! The last thing I want
from you is a health class.
This isn't a health class.
it's an unholy test.
to determine what
kind of demon you are.
- Really?
- Yup!
Besides. I'm pretty sure
I'm the only other demon here.
So‐‐ what
other choice do you have?
Uh... All right.
What the heck. Yay!
Our ancestors arose
from the muck
of a decomposing Titan.
And there are so many of us!
But all demons can be placed
in three categories:
Bug. Biped and Beast.
Yeah. okay. Everyone knows
about the three B's‐‐
Do not interrupt!
Now. I'm pretty sure
you're not a Bug.
but we can't
rule anything out.
As a type of worm myself...
...I'm an expert
on this subject!
Let's begin.
Bug types naturally communicate
through dance. Like so!
Poetic.
Don't you talk about
my mother!
Well. your
dance was offensive
and your attempt to spin
a cocoon was just... sad.
Honestly. Can we just
not talk about the cocoon?
Okay. Let's see
if you're a Biped demon.
They walk on two legs and even
have bile sacks just like witches!
So for this test. you're gonna have
a duel with a little friend of mine.
A scuffle. eh? All
right. all right. Let's do it!
Just. uh. don't get mad
if you can't‐‐
Hmm.
Wow!
Not a single spell.
Even Bug demons
have some magic.
It's fine. it's fine.
Let's just keep going.
Okay. okay. There's only
one way to test for Beast types.
I'm gonna need
a blood sample.
I "gwaduated"
from medical school!
After reviewing the
results. we've come to a conclusion.
Lay it on me! Beast. Bug. Biped. I
don't care. I just wanna know what I am.
You...
...are you!
"Hooway"!
Weh!
The blood tests
were inconclusive.
We don't really know
what you are.
But that's okay 'cause we don't
need to know that to be your friends.
I thought
you had real answers.
The only real answer
is inside your heart.
I don't need you to
tell me to love myself. Hooty.
I want to know where I came
from. what my dad looked like.
what I'll look like
when I grow up.
I don't have any responses to my
video yet. Or my wanted posters.
Maybe my dad is gone. Maybe
there's no one else like me.
And I'll live my whole life
without any answers.
No! I didn't wanna make you mad!
Well. I am mad. At him.
for not being here!
He left me alone!
Huh?
Oh. no. Now I'm sad too.
At least the cake is good!
It was supposed to be
a crumble!
Hooty? Hooty!
Things got a little.
uh. messy with King.
But I wasn't about to give up!
What Eda said confused me.
How could she get stronger
if she's bone‐tired?
And maybe I was being
a nervous Nellie.
but I couldn't shake my fear
of the Owl Beast coming out.
Me? Sleep? Ha!
Not until I can call myself
the most powerful witch on
the Boiling Isles once again!
Hmm...
"A reward for all your
hard work! Love. Hooty"?
Hmm. Not a bad idea.
I could use the fuel.
Dang. owl boy can bake.
Sleeping nettles?
Yup! One bite will put
you to sleep for hours!
Sleeping nettles don't just put you
to sleep. they heighten your dreams!
Do you realize who you
just stuck me with?
Hooty. don't let me
fall asleep.
Yup! One bite will put
you to sleep for hours!
For hours. For hours.
You know.
maybe this is an opportunity.
The Owl Beast is why
I ran away from home.
I never got close to anyone.
And the Owl Beast...
is why I don't have magic.
You've haunted me long enough.
birdbrain.
I think it's time
for me to haunt you.
Huh?
Huh!
Well. this is a development.
Edalyn!
Come downstairs. please!
Mother.
do you like my napkin folding?
That's nice. sweet‐flea.
Edalyn!
Help us set up. won't you?
Sorry. dream‐mom. I don't have time
for whatever this is. I'm on a mission.
You're going to say that the
night your dad leaves for the Mandible.
Dad?
Hey. pumpkin!
Here to see me off?
Dad! It's so good
to see you again.
I was only gone
for an hour.
Hey. I know I won't be home
for a while. so that's why tonight...
Wait. I remember this now.
...I'll be leaving in style!
No! I won't let you
ruin this again!
Dell! Lilith.
call the healing coven. now!
It wasn't your fault.
It was yours!
Eda. I...
Whoa! What are you doing?
Uh‐‐ Raine!
Uh. nothing. I'm fine.
You're lying again. It's
like I don't really know you.
So. I've made a decision.
Okay. okay.
I know how this plays out.
But I'll be ready this time.
You hear me. birdbrain?
I'm joining
the Bard Coven and...
No. no. no. I hate this part.
...I think we should
see other people.
I'm sorry. Eda. It's over.
Are you okay?
Is this the curse?
Just tell
them. Let them help.
It's fine.
Everything's normal.
You can leave now.
I can't do this anymore.
Stop pushing him away.
You!
It was always you.
It was all your fault.
Stop... ruining... my life!
Don't bother.
beast. You can't run away anymore.
It's over.
It's okay.
I thought these were
a way to fight you.
but I think they're the reason
we can stand here. face to face.
Listen. neither of us
want to be here.
but we are.
and there's no changing that.
If we can't accept each other.
this nightmare will never end.
So. what do you say?
Truce? For now?
It's like sandpaper.
Wow... I've never
had a dream this pretty.
Ugh! My head.
Huh?
Oh. geez. did I turn again?
Whoa.
I made it worse.
I made it worse!
Hooty. wait. It's okay.
Hooty!
Oh. girl. This is a hot look.
You're scaring the echo mouse.
If he's not happy. I'll never
make my way into Amity's heart.
I mean. make a portal back
home. Uh... we have to go!
Okay. little mouse.
If you don't want to tell me about
Philip or how he made his portal.
maybe you can tell me how to ask
out a cotton‐candy‐haired goddess?
Luz's heart was torn between
finding a way home and the pursuit of love.
How'd I know all that? I suppose I'm
just attuned to other peoples' emotions.
She wasn't gonna make any
progress if her attention was split!
Amity's smart. cool and classy.
Asking her out
should be breathtaking.
emotional and real!
Everyone back home
said I was cheesy.
Can't let Amity think
the same.
"As we stumble through life.
gloom knows no bounds.
You'll only find love
when you're in the ground"? Ugh!
"P.S. I mean the basement!"
Hooty.
I don't have time for this!
Also. we have a basement?
Amity?
Oh. yeah. that's silly.
Why would Amity be in our‐‐
Amity!
Luz? Where are we?
I think Hooty brought me here?
Ah. well. this is our basement.
I am so sorry about this.
Hooty's been acting weird all day.
Yeah. House demons get like
that after a couple thousand years.
It's fine.
Listen. about what
happened at my place.
I kinda‐‐ If we could just forget
about the whole thing maybe? I‐‐
Hey! All I care about is getting
you out of our dirty. weird basement.
Oh. no.
"To return to the world above. make
your way through the tunne of‐‐"
If Amity sees this.
she'll think I'm such a loser.
What is this?
Oh!
Hoot!
Whoa!
♪ I'll conjure up some flowers ♪
Hooty!
♪ We could hold wholesome hands
For hours ♪
♪ You'll be my sweetheart ♪
♪ My sweetheart ♪
♪ My wholesome
Magic sweetheart ♪
Oh. no. I'm gonna
be made fun of again.
Did you. uh‐‐
Did you just say something?
Uh... no!
That was. uh...
an invasive species.
♪ And will you be my steady? ♪
♪ I hope we never part ♪
I'm so sorry. Amity!
This is not supposed to happen.
♪ Be my wholesome
Magic sweetheart ♪
This was a nightmare.
Yeah. it kinda was.
I'll get out of your
hair. Amity. wait.
This wasn't me. This
was all Hooty's stupid idea.
Yeah. This was stupid.
I mean. us. dating? Heh.
That's stupid. right?
No! I did it again!
I can't help anyone!
Out! Out. vile owl!
Rid this house of thyself!
Hooty! Calm down. you dingdong!
Never shall I curse this home
with my odious presence again!
Looks like
I have to do this
the hard way.
Eda? Don't worry. I
think it's a good thing.
But where's Luz?
What's going on?
I don't know.
But things always get weird
when Hooty's upset. Whoa!
Luz. Luz. run!
No!
Did you do that?
I‐I think I did.
I think I've got a power.
Are you two okay?
Whoa!
Not as okay as you.
Dang. girl. I have a
few questions for later.
I failed you all!
No. Hooty. You actually
weirdly helped me.
I'm like
a Harpy Woman now.
And I can explode things
with my voice powers!
But I still failed Luz!
Luz. what was Hooty
trying to do?
Quick! Pretend he helped you
before he destroys everything.
He was trying
to help me ask Amity out.
Oh. whoa.
Do you wanna?
- Mm‐hmm.
- Then do it.
Like this?
Yeah. I hear ya.
I might be able to help.
It won't be perfect. but
does it really need to be?
Good luck. kid.
Amity...
Oh. my gosh.
Amity. are you okay?
I'm all right.
I was just‐‐ I've been wanting
to ask you something for a while.
But I wanted to do it
in the best way.
And in the Tunnel of Love. I
thought. Amity's too cool for this.
I'm not as cool as you think.
Okay. Everything
is so crazy right now.
and I have no idea
what my future holds.
but it would be so cool
if you were in it. so. uh...
Do you want
to go out with me?
No!
I was so ready.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
You can say it.
Okay. Amity Blight. do
you wanna go out with me?
Yes!
Okay!
Why is this still so
scary? I don't know.
Dang. Hooty. you really
are something.
Hoot. hoot. hoot. hoot.
King may not
know where he came from.
but he's learning more and more
about himself every day.
Whaa!
Eda can become Harpy Eda now.
She still drinks her elixir.
But she's accepted
the Owl Beast as part of her.
It's progress!
And Luz's new GF
showed her tips and tricks
to get more information
from that old human's diary.
They're adorable
and deserve all the happiness!
I had to promise never
to help anyone ever again.
but nevertheless.
I'm a genius!
Everything's solved!
No more mysteries!
I beg your pardon?
Would you see this finds
its way to King Clawthorne?
Oh. my gosh. a bug!
Ah!
Whoopsie!
Hope that was junk mail!